
tools and platforms are an arbitrage

--


The ratio of creators vs consumers per platform remains constant. Let's say as an optimistic scenario 1/100 users are creators. 

The first articles on Medium would have gotten huge organic exposure, the first featured videos on Vimeo the same.

Although there is only so much "window space" for creators as in first 50 results on Google. Things were awesome for the first 50 business's, they were featured no matter what. Therefore even less competitive business's could get organic lands.

Extend this notion to any discovery platform like Instagram or Twitter, you will eventually come across the same conclusion. First, reserve the best usernames. The consistency allows them to build an audience quickly.

Same occurs for tools in the hands of creators, this is especially apparent for design tools like C4D, at the beginning when there is a shortage of knowledge and at the saturation phase everything looks the same. Artists and designers have moved onto the next phase of complexity such as Houdini or Touch Designer. It's evident that VFX pushes this when artists become defined by their tools, one after effects animation isn't a world different from the next.

There value of a tool as in inverse correlation to the bell curve distribution of people utilizing the said tool to create things.

It's why demand for COBOL as a skill still exists.

To explain the phenomenon to the left of the curve, it's why ball point pen and lead pencil are are still valued, they are on the far left primitive area of the spectrum that requires a large commitment of craftsmanship and time that can't be easily replicated, on the far right you have technology like AfterEffects, C4D, Houdini, Octane and then custom renderers and other new media ai art on the other spectrum. On the far right you have new media art which includes but is not limited to "AI"

The middle of the curve houses the most content, it's content which is somewhat safe. The type of content that is easily replicated, it has no visual "identity" per se, it's neither good or bad. It just exists in the middle grounds of the content spectrum.


---

Monday, 29 Jan 2024, 16:47
